 1. Insightful papers about explanations, including natural language explanations and other forms of explanations. 
 I am especially interested in the papers contextualizing the explanations and those showing the utilities of explanations. For example, those showing that explanations can make the systems more safe and trustworthy. 
 I do not want to see simple applications of existing explanation techniques to existing datasets.  
 2. Papers making significant contributions in alignment. 
 I am especially interested in theoretical and novel empirical algorithms, and papers adopting novel evaluation approaches for alignments. 
 I do not want to see papers only applying alignment to existing applications.
 3. Papers showing a significant advance in the understanding of neural network models.
 I am particularly interested in papers using circuit, probing, attention analysis, subnetwork analysis, information theory and other tools to understand the mechanisms of neural networks.  
 4. Papers that describe new paradigms to evaluating open-ended text generation. Evaluating the outputs of language models is hard, especially in open-ended settings like for chatbots.
 I appreciate the papers that fundamentally rethink language model evaluation -- especially by accounting for subjectivity or using adversaries.
 I don't like simple papers doing just specific evaluations for specific tasks, identifying new properties or flaws of language models, or simply collecting new data.
 5. Papers about the safety of AI.
 I am interested in papers that create new datasets or surveys on real-world usage of AI, including LLMs and beyond. Papers that extensively discuss how AIs can impose threats to humans, including but not limited to propagating fake news and persuading. Papers making significant advance in limiting hallucinations and privacy issues are also relevant.  
 I do not want to see papers that only apply language models to simple tasks.  
 6. Papers making impressive contributions about the decision-making abilities of foundational models.  
 I consider these papers relevant: Papers exploring new application scenarios of foundational models and assessing these models' range of applications. Papers presenting theoretical and empirical advance in understanding and leveraging the agency of these models, including language models and beyond. Papers showing how these models collaborate with humans.  
 I am not interested in: papers that do not involve high-stake decision making scenarios, or papers that are not remotely relevant to humans.  

 In suggesting papers to your friend, remember that he enjoys papers that are helpful for understanding and controlling AI models, especially natural language processing models.
 Your friend also likes learning about surprising empirical results in language models, as well as clever machine learning tricks.
 He does not want to read papers that are about primarily applications of methods to specific domains.